two years later we looked for Amber's
daughter we were in for a terrible shock
she had survived but only just we didn't
know whether she'd been ill or had just
found independence a little too tough to
cope with but whatever the trouble was
she looked seriously thin there is
plenty of food on Savannah but you have
to be fit and healthy to get it if she
didn't find the strength to hunt she
would die
we hoped that this was a sign that she
was on the road to recovery with her
cubs long gone amber was a solitary
female once again to her old tricks
using the cars a lookout post scanning
the plains for prey of all the Masai
Mara as big cats cheetahs are the most
vulnerable Amber's story had been one of
success I think she's probably 12 years
old now that's an old cheetah in a while
I have to say this maybe
it was indeed the last time we saw amber
meanwhile Amber's daughter was
attracting the attentions of a male but
cheetah courtships usually have a stormy
start this weekend which was not about
who's going to win the fight far more as
it going to lend in romance
cuts on the mail is out of that last
encounter
he seems indifferent to the fact that
his nose is quite literally pouring
blood he really starting to see the
change from that initial full-on
aggression when they first met into a
much more flirtatious encounter at that
time beginning to break down those
barriers of hostility
this could be the start of a new
generation of cheaters
over eight years we've witnessed many
dramas in the lives of these rare and
vulnerable big cats
we've seen how cheetah mothers fight to
raise their young
feeding teaching and protecting their
cubs on the long hard journey to
independence a journey so few cheetah
cubs survive